---
title: "PwnedChecker: Password Breach Detection"
date: 2024-08-04 00:00:00 +0000
categories: [Projects]
tags: [Cybersecurity, API, Python]
---

## Project Description

**PwnedChecker** is a tool that I developed in Python for checking if your password has been compromised in any data breaches by leveraging the HaveIBeenPwned API. It creates a SHA-1 hash of the password, sends a request using the first five characters of the hash to the API, and processes the response to determine if the password has been pwned.

## Key Features

- **Password Hashing**: Utilizes `hashlib` for the SHA-1 hashing algorithm to securely hash the user's password.
- **API Integration**: Leverages the HaveIBeenPwned API to verify if the password has been exposed in data breaches.
- **Response Processing**: Parses the API response to find the complete hash and retrieve the count of breaches.
- **User-Friendly Interaction**: Guides the user through the process with clear prompts and informative messages.

## Libraries Used

These are the libraries that I'm using in `pwnedchecker.py`:

```python
import hashlib
import requests
import argparse
```

hashlib: hashlib is a Python library for creating hashes, which is important since I need to create hashes of the password so that I can check if they were pwned in HaveIBeenPwned's database, which stores pwned passwords by their SHA-1 hash.

requests: requests is a Python library for creating and sending HTTP requests. This is important since I need to interact with HaveIBeenPwned's API to check if a password was previously involved in a breach.

argparse: argparse is a Python library for parsing command line arguments to the program. This allows my program to take in command line arguments in the terminal.
